.TH ublu 1 "26 September 2018" "version 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
ublu - launch Ublu Midrange and Mainframe Life Cycle Extension Language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI [CLASSPATH= path1:path2
.RB ... ] " " ublu " " [-h|--help]
.BI [-X opt " "q
.RB ... ] " " [-D
.I prop=val
.RB  ... ] " " [-u
.IR ubluclasspathelement1:
.RB ... ] " " [-w
.BI [ propertiesfilepath ]]
.B [--]
.BI [ arg
.RB ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ublu
is a bash/ksh shell script which launches the Ublu Midrange and Mainframe Life
Cycle Extension Language (http://github.com/jwoehr/ublu) which is a Java
program.

The ublu.jar file must be installed and Ublu's lib directory must be
present and populated, either in the default layout:

/opt/ublu +
          | ublu.jar
          | lib/ +
                 |
.I liba.jar
                 |
.I libb.jar
                 | ...

or elsewhere and specified in an ublu class path passed to the
.B -u
option of the ublu launcher script.

If the
.B -w
option is passed without the (optional) name of a properties file, the
.B --
option ender must be provided before any arguments intended to be passed to Ublu
itself. This option ender must also be used before any dashed options intended
for Ublu itself appear on the command line.

After the shell script options on the command line are exhausted (or ended via
the option ender
.BR -- )
all further arguments are passed to Ublu itself, options and/or commands.

.B ublu
exits with a return code of:
.IP \(bu 4
the return value of Ublu execution if Ublu is successfully invoked
.IP \(bu
-2 if there is an error in invocation
.IP \(bu 
0 if
.B -h
or
.B --help
is invoked.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI CLASSPATH= "path1:path2" ...
Provide before invocation a Java classpath accessible to Ublu while it executes.
Ublu allows interactive calls into Java libraries so this is a means to make
sure these libraries are findable from within Ublu.

This is a "pre-option" processed by the shell, not the script, and must precede
on the command line the invocation of the ublu shell script.

.TP
.BR -h " or " --help
issues as usage message and exits with a return code of 0.

.TP
.BI -X xopt
Passes a Java -X option to the JVM. The option must not provide an extra leading
"X" itself; correct is, e.g. -X ms512m or -Xms512m

This option can be used multiple times.

.TP
.BI -D " prop=val"
Pass a Java property=value pair to the JVM. Ublu respects several properties
itself, refer to the Ublu Reference.

This option can be used multiple times.

.TP
.BI -u " ubluclasspathelement1:" ...
If Ublu is not installed in /opt/ublu with its support libraries in
/opt/ublu/lib the locations of each element must be passed in the classpath.
Use the -u option to pass all these (multiple) elements in one option.
.B Note
It is only necessary to reference the classpath to ublu.jar if ublu.ar sits
in the directory above Ublu's lib/ directory.

.TP
.BI -w " [propertiesfilepath]"
Invokes Ublu in a Swing window with an optional properties file. See the Ublu
Reference for a description of Ublu windowing mode and its optional properties
file.

If the
.B -w
option is passed without the (optional) name of a properties file, the
.B --
option ender must be provided before any arguments intended to be passed to Ublu
itself.

.TP
.B --
ends shell script option processing. All further options and arguments
are passed to Ublu itself.

.SH EXAMPLES
 
ublu -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/home/me/work/security/keystores/ublutruststore \\
 -Dublu.includepath=/home/me/myublusrc:/opt/ublu/examples:/opt/ublu/extensions \\
 -Dublu.usage.linelength=100 -- -i myfile.ublu
 
Invokes Ublu

.IP \(bu 4
with a trust store for SSL connections

.IP \(bu
with an include path consisting of the default include path supplemented by the
user's own ublu source

.IP \(bu
with a line wrap at 100 characters for those Ublu commands that recognize
the line wrap

.IP \(bu
including
.I myfile.ublu
from the current directory or the search path.

.LP
ublu -Xmx2g -Xms2g \\
 -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/home/me/work/security/keystores/ublutruststore \\
 -Dublu.includepath=/home/me/myublusrc:/opt/ublu/examples:/opt/ublu/extensions \\
 -Dublu.usage.linelength=100 -w -- -i myfile.ublu
 
.IP \(bu
Invokes Ublu as above, but in a window and with a heap of 2 gigabytes.

.SH DISCLAIMER
Ublu is free open source software with NO WARRANTY and NO GUARANTEE, including
as regards fitness for any application. See the file LICENSE which you should
have received with the Ublu distribution.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the Ublu issue tracker at https://github.com/jwoehr/ublu/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
.I The concise reference to the Ublu Midrange and Mainframe Life Cycle Extension Language 
http://softwoehr.com/softwoehr/oss/ubludoc/ubluref.html

.I Guide to the Ublu Midrange and Mainframe Life Cycle Extension Language
http://softwoehr.com/softwoehr/oss/ubludoc/ubluguide.html
	
.SH AUTHOR
Jack J. Woehr jwoehr@softwoehr.com